## ANRs and deadlocks

(Reading Bug Reports章节)
Bugreports can help you identify what's causing Application Not Responding (ANR) errors and deadlock events.



### Identifying unresponsive apps

When an application does not respond within a certain time, usually due to a blocked or busy main thread, the system kills the process and dumps the stack to /data/anr. To discover the culprit behind an ANR, grep for am_anr in the binary event log.

grep "am_anr" bugreport-2015-10-01-18-13-48.txt
10-01 18:12:49.599 4600 4614 I am_anr : [0,29761,com.google.android.youtube,953695941,executing service com.google.android.youtube/com.google.android.apps.youtube.app.offline.transfer.OfflineTransferService]
10-01 18:14:10.211 4600 4614 I am_anr : [0,30363,com.google.android.apps.plus,953728580,executing service com.google.android.apps.plus/com.google.android.apps.photos.service.PhotosService]

You can also grep for ANR in in the logcat log, which contains more information about what was using CPU at the time of the ANR. 



### Finding stack traces

You can often find stack traces that correspond to an ANR. Make sure the timestamp and PID on the VM traces match the ANR you are investigating, then check the main thread of the process. Keep in mind:
1.The main thread tells you only what the thread was doing at the time of the ANR, which may or may not correspond to the true cause of the ANR. (The stack in the bug report may be innocent; something else may have been stuck for a long time—but not quite long enough to ANR—before becoming unstuck.)
2.More than one set of stack traces might exist. Make sure you are viewing the correct section.



### Finding deadlocks

Deadlocks often first appear as ANRs because threads are getting stuck. If the deadlock hits the system server, the watchdog will eventually kill it, leading to an entry in the log similar to: WATCHDOG KILLING SYSTEM PROCESS. From the user perspective, the device reboots, although technically this is a runtime restart rather than a true reboot.

1.In a runtime restart, the system server dies and is restarted; the user sees the device return to the boot animation.
2.In a reboot, the kernel has crashed; the user sees the device return to the Google boot logo.
To find deadlocks, check the VM traces sections for a pattern of thread A waiting on something held by thread B, which in turn is waiting on something held by thread A.

根据官网论述，死锁现象也会作为ANR的一种表现方式出现，也会把日志记录到/data/anr目录下，但是如果死锁发生在system server进程中，则看门狗(watchdog)会杀掉system server进程，并且在main log中会看到关键字"WATCHDOG KILLING SYSTEM PROCESS"，系统运行时将会重启，system server也会重启，此时用户会看到开机动画会再次播放。